a head of the UN Agency for Palestinian
refugees says Israel's recent attacks in
the agency are part of a push to remove
it from the Gaza Strip Israel accused
some onra staff of involvement in the
October 7th attacks but a review of the
agency's operations released on Monday
stated that Israel has not provided
supporting evidence for its claim while
Johnny manow is the United Nation from
the United Nations is the commissioner
of on Philip larini thank you very much
indeed uh for being with us the report
that we were talking about was the one
put together by the French former French
foreign minister Katherine Kad there
were a list of recommendations that it
made to ensure accountability so that
Ona could uh demonstrate its neutrality
do you think that will go a significant
way to stopping the kind of allegations
being made against the organization or
do you think you are going to this is
something that you're simply going to
face for a long
time so first of all thank you for
having me I really hope uh that the
report will help us to restore the
confidence of our partners and the
donors uh the Secretary General and
myself have welcomed the report we have
welcomed also the recommendation and you
might have noticed that the report
clearly indicated that the agency
already have number of robust mechanism
to deal with neutrality issue and that
this mechanis are above I would say the
standard of many other agencies or
International ngos but because of the
nature of the conflict we are dealing
with and the complexity of our
environment it is needed to do even
better and this is the reason why uh we
Embrace and I embrace the recommendation
made by Kine Cola and our team and we
are now preparing a response plan to
follow up on this recommendation mhm uh
during your press conference you gave a
long list of uh the level of of damage
to onward property and of course the the
effect that this has had on on staff the
arrests that have been carried out and
so on what is the morale of staff at
onra at the moment of course not just in
Gaza but in all the areas that it
operates when it must I would imagine
feel that is under constant
pressure yeah un on the constant attack
constant pressure constant call of
dismantling a constant administrative
harassment and also constant I would say
sometimes social media uh assassination
and this has definitely an impact on our
staff you might also have seen over the
last few days there have been an opinion
poll and also within the population in
the West Bank and in Gaza there is a
deeper anxi iy that if the the agency is
dismantled that this would also put an
end to the two-state solution I was at
the security Council uh last week and
basically I told the member that the
attack on un have nothing to do with
neutrality issues but in reality they
are motivated by the objective to strip
the Palestinian uh from their Refugee
statuses you also mentioned in your
press conference that within 24 hours of
the allegations originally being made by
Me by Israel about members of Ona
allegedly taking part in the hamus L
October 7th attacks in southern Israel
16 to 18 countries who pulled their
funding How concerned and how worried
are you that countries are prepared to
pull funding so quickly before
allegations are actually determined to
be founded
that that shows also the unprecedented
crisis uh and chency agency is currently
uh facing and dealing with uh it is true
that 16 country within 48 Hours announce
their PS but the good news is that since
most of the countries have reviewed the
decision and have reinstated the
contribution to the agency at the time
they took the decision uh it had the the
agency basically had no visibility
anymore about its Financial contribution
today thanks to the fact that most of
the donors have come back a new donor
have also joined uh the agencies we have
slightly more visibilities and I can say
with some comfort that we have enough
resources to keep our activities running
at least till the end of June uh and go
into the month of July but it's very
prec curious and we continue to function
uh Mouse to hand to Mouse given the
allegations that were made about onra by
Israel you were talking in your press
conference about the fact that you have
to have um constant contact with the
with all parties who are involved in in
the crisis how difficult does that
situation become when those allegations
have been
made well you you you you you know the
once the allegation have been made they
had a considerable negative impact on
the agencies some confidence have been
temporarily broke with the member states
so we had to redouble our effort to
restore this confidence now the cine
Colona report supported by the free
Institute is an key element to restore
the confidence with with our member
states how confident are you now that
onra is in a position to be able to
deliver the age that people in Gaza and
elsewhere so badly
need listen again everything is
extremely precarious as you know the
United State has also decided to suspend
all its contribution to the agency the
United State won't be coming back before
March next week this leaves behind a
huge shortfall that we will have to
breach uh I am cautiously uh optimistic
that we might succeed with the support
of the existing Don ways but also with
the support of new donors given the fact
that you were you as you've referred to
that onra is constantly facing pressure
and allegations from um from all sides
at times throughout the course of its
history has there ever been particularly
in this circumstance has there ever been
a discussion about onr ch changing its
role or changing the way that it works
in order to try if nothing else to take
the pressure of its staff who are on the
ground we have tried to initiate a
number of discussion related to a
partnership as you know this year is a
75 marks 75 years of uh of un before
October 7 7 I wanted in fact to initiate
a discussion about can un alone continue
to be uh the uh the full inclusive
service provider for the Palestinian
refugees especially in the absence of a
political uh Horizon um because we have
seen that the interest of the donor to
support the agencies has also decreased
over the years and before the conflict
in in Gaza so this type of conversation
definitely needs to take place while at
the same time we have to make sure that
this conversation do not weaken the
future right of the palestin refugees
and this conversation takes place under
I would say the principle of resolution
302 you said that your staff on the
ground had um been telling you that
there have had been some improvement in
the number of Aid trucks that were
getting into Gaza I believe that you
quoted a figure of the average was about
200 a day there had at Peak there had
been over 300 uh talk to us briefly sir
about the the priorities that an has in
terms of the kind of Aid that it is
trying to supply in
Gaza I mean this development shows also
that if there is a political will we can
increase the number of trucks we can
increase the volume of the supply which
enter into Gaza so it is true that over
the last few days there have been uh
some uh uh there have been some
improvement my colleagues on the ground
for example indicated that the last
convoys entering into the north have not
been assaulted by desperate uh people
who would have struggled to get a part
of the assistance of a truck so all
these are sign that there are some
slight Improvement but to reverse the
looming uh I would say hunger and
starvation uh taking place in the Gaza
STP we need this Supply to be
uninterrupted and at the same scale in
the forceable future I just want to ask
you sir before we let you go just very
briefly um in terms of On's experience
on the ground particularly in Gaza how
if at all is that going to affect how
onra deals with situations similar to
this in the future will you be
reassessing the way that you approach
your services uh in situations like this
but first we have also to look uh into
the recommendation of uh the Colona
report because maybe some of them might
also impact the way we might deliver
services in in the future uh we have uh
an action review uh taking place in real
time right now regarding our operation
in Gaza and we will certainly also learn
some lesson to be applied
in future context if and God forbid
there is again a conflict Philip lini we
appreciate you being with us on Al jazer
thank you very much indeed for your
time thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer